College Station, Texas A&M. Would you introduce
yourself please, tell me your full name and maybe a
little about your very early career and where you
came from and how you got to Texas A&M. Okay,
William Burch Harris. I was born in Loveland,
Colorado. which is probably, in my opinion, the
best place in the world to have been born. It's
right close to the mountains. And my parents were
fairly well aged when I got born, so they sort of let
me run my own ship, which was kind of a Belgian
outfit. It gave me a lot of free rein to go fishing
when I felt like it and that sort of thing. It was a
good life. Of course, that was during the
Depression when the folks had a farm, which they
rented out, which made them, I guess you'd say
middle class, but still not much money.
The big thing around Lublin in those days was
farming. Sugar beets? Are you into sugar beets?
Sugar beets, yeah. And at that time, they called
themselves the cherry capital of the world. They
had many, many cherry orchards. And during the
summer, for example, all those kids and mothers
and fathers and other people would be picking
cherries. You could make a lot of money, but in the
Depression, a dollar a day wasn't bad. It's about
what I could make.
We had a canning plant there in town, which
processed cherries and peas and beans other
things of that nature. It was the second biggest
industry in town, the sugar beet factory being the
biggest. Were you kind of on the edge then of
chemical engineering and didn't know it at the
time? Well, not really.
Not too much chemical engineering in Canyon, I
guess, for sure. Well, I'm from Louisiana, and I
guess They really recruited chemical engineers
pretty early into the sugar refining process.
That's right. Most of them had a chemist, they used
to call them chemists, but it turns out chem
engineers were a little more useful than chemists
actually, because the chemistry is pretty well
fixed for that business. Actually, in our town,
the best job in town was probably the manager of the
sugar plant. The next best job was being the
chemist in the sugar plant. But anyhow, when I was
16, I, Cornswogged a chance to go to work for the
Cooner Empson Company during the summer, which
meant I didn't have to pick cherries anymore. And I
got the big sum of 32 cents an hour, which was about
double the normal wage, so that was not bad. No,
that's pretty good. That's K-U-N-E-R.
K-U-N-E-R. Yeah. Did you ever see that? Oh
yeah. But anyhow, I kind of got in there through the
back door. I met a guy who was a foreman
and he kind of liked me I guess. He had an extra time
card he was supposed to be passing out to his old
employees and he slipped one to me. You were hired.
I was hired. Plant's superintendent came along
about a week later and saw me and said, my God, how
old are you? I told him 16, and he looked at me a
little bit and finally said, well, bring a letter
from your parents saying it's okay. So I had a job,
which was, there weren't too many jobs in those
days. That was a little, I should at least half the
town was unemployed, I guess. A little more than
that. Anyhow, I worked there, finished up high
school, I decided I'd go to, in high school,
chemistry was lots of fun. So, that and the fact
that I liked to repair motorcycles and crap like
that, the instructor told me I ought to be a team
engineer. It sounded all right to me. That's all I
knew about it. Went to the University of Colorado.
got out after the usual four years. Now, at
Colorado, was the chemical engineering program
in with chemistry? No, it was a separate
department, but I later, after I graduated, found
out it was not an accredited college. So, that got
me into a little trouble later on when I wanted to do
the registry as a professional engineer, because
I hadn't gotten out of an accredited institution.
But anyhow, worked
my way through college, didn't have any money.
Actually, the way I did it, I formed a housing
co-op, and we rented an old fraternity house that
had gone under, hired a housekeeper and cook, and
we were in business. And since I organized it, I got
three board meetings for being the dishwasher.
You know, that was a big thing here. You've
probably heard about it, the Kalamata Houses.
Well, it was pretty much in those days. We had a guy,
a prop sponsor, who by today's standards would be a
full-fledged communist, that he would offer.
That was the style. That kind of stuff. So it worked
out real well. I had that job. In the summers, of
course I went back the next year, when I was
seventeen, and worked at the canning company most
of the summer.
When I was 18 I went back and found out that the
foreman of the plant was going to quit because he'd
gotten a full-time job up in this part working in
the diversion of the Big Thompson River. And about
a month before the plant was supposed to start, I
went and wondered who the heck my boss was going to
be. So I walked down to the plant, caught the plant
manager walking down the sidewalk in front of the
building and says, hey, I hear Bert's not coming
back. He says, that's right. So I said, well, do you
have anyone to take his place? And he looked at me
kind of funny and said, well, he'll consider you.
So I kept my mouth shut. Of course, I had no idea of
applying for the job, but about a week later, one of
my buddies said, I went down and asked the same
thing. He wanted to know who his boss was going to
be. The guy said, well, did you work for Bill
Harris? I guess I could. He said, well, that's the
guy. So he got on his bicycle, rode up, and told me.
And that's the first time I knew about it. And that
afternoon, I got a call from the plant manager. He
called me then, asked me if I thought I could handle
it. And I said, well, if I get into trouble, I guess I
ought to do the same. OK, he said. So, that was a big
job, by the way. That was one of the best jobs in
town. I bet he went and broke all his buttons off his
chest. What year was that now? That would be 1938.
37. Maybe 38, I think.
Anyhow, After the first day or two, which were
absolute hell, everything went fine, and I had a
real good job. Actually, when I graduated and
decided I'd have to go back east to get a job as a chem
engineer, I told the plant manager, and I actually
cried because I was leaving. So he kind of liked me.
And it turns out, I think, that I decided I'd been
better off nationally by staying there and going
back east. But as a chem engineer, I had to do my
thing. Went back to Buffalo, New York, I got a job
with National Handling Division of Analytic
Chemical and Dye, which is a company that makes dye
stuff. At that time, most of all the chemistry
industry involved coal-tar chemistry. I started
out with benzene, naphthalene, built up an entire
industry from that. It was a very fun job because
everything was batch chemistry. and they ran
almost every reaction that's known except the
Denard reaction. So I had a lot of opportunity to
learn a lot about industrial chemistry, although
I was a chem engineer, they considered me a
chemist. I started there as a production worker,
and I guess I made so many waves telling them how to
do it this way or that way, they put me over in
research and development. I and one other chem
engineering BS were the only people in the
research department that didn't have PhDs in
chemistry, which made us kind of weird. And I
wasn't too hot in chemistry anyhow, so I ended up
taking the processes that most of the chemists
would develop and working on them and making them a
practical process for the industry to put out into
the plant. Because they'd do things like 13 ether
extractions or something like that. We just
totally paused for that. But that's what I came up
with. Right. And so I worked for the the
intermediates group as their, I guess you'd say,
liaison between application
and research. It was a great job. The war broke out.
I got an industrial deferment. I tried to enter the
Navy because we had to get an engine sprang in. got
that shot down real fast. They needed training in
industrial chemistry. Did Allied Chemical move
into war production? They did some, but of course
things like Cagney Dye and so forth. Yeah, that's
right. But really what kind of got going
thereafter, I did a number of things. I worked on
some war gases, things like that. One thing's not
generally known, we didn't do much fighting over
in the east for about two years after the war broke
out, because, well, the Japanese had taken over
Indonesia and these other countries that
produced quinine, and all of them were heavily
infested with malaria, and it was just
impractical to invade these islands and not have
any kind of quinine available. And finally the
Americans from North Africa captured some German
soldiers, and found they were taking a pill that
the vermin had developed as an asymptote for one
brain, for adrenoplinicrin. They sent the pills
over to us and said we need tons of this stuff as soon
as possible.
So three of us took on the job of synthesizing that
and working with the production team. Did Allied
chemical manufacturers start making it? Oh yes,
they started making it. That was kind of an
interesting thing. It turned out everybody took
it yellow. Most of the soldiers can remember
taking it. I almost remember that stuff. I didn't
take it, but I remember people talking about it. I
remember one of the funny things is I walked in and
we had a polar lab. One of my friends was down there.
I went down to see him and went into the lab where he
had a black light on. It scared the hell out of me. I
glowed. I glowed all over like one of those
Halloween skeletons or something. That kind of
scared me for a bit. But anyhow, the Battle of the
Bows came along. And that was a lot more serious
than most people thought because immediately
they canceled all industrial referments for 126,
including mine. I got a notice immediately from
the Colorado draft board saying report down for
termination.
And so I reported for an exam, went through what I
thought were flying colors. came up to the final
guy who did the stamping and he looked at me and
looked at the thing and he looked back at me and he
reached over and he got a big stamp saying reject
me. And I started to argue with him. I didn't know
what the hell. Got home and my wife was really
excited. She had gotten a telegram from the
backboard saying to ignore the exam. She had
gotten a telegram from Brigadier General Drum of
New York Selecting Service saying that he had
assumed jurisdiction of my thing, and that I was to
ignore the Italian. Got another one from the
portion of D.C. somewhere. Forget everything.
Then we got some kind of a message from the plant
saying to ignore the old thing, but it all came
after I had my cancer. So there was a pretty
concerted effort to keep me in the malaria
business, I guess. There were two of us out of 26
that were under that age that didn't get picked up.
I kind of resented it in a way, but I could
understand the whole thing. My wife thought it was
great. She didn't want me to do it at all. Do I have
kids at that time? I have one. At
that time I had one.
Maybe I had to, I'm not sure. But anyhow, I didn't
like New York very well. Again, in the West, that's
kind of the problem, I think. I particularly
didn't like Buffalo, which had a beautiful
country that had a perfectly precious climate. I
couldn't move because of the war, of course. Mike
pointed out also that I couldn't get very many
raises. The only people who got raises during the
war were people who won the unions. It was kind of
funny because almost every employee in the plant
that was working made more money than the
superintendents did. Because they could get
raises, and we couldn't. So, some of the guys
working for me, particularly with their
overtime, would make two or three times as much as I
made. I knew that. You know, they had the wage price
freeze everywhere, but they never told them that
the unions were out of that. It kind of got me into
trouble. My brother-in-law, who had an eighth
grade education, worked for Curtis Wright
Airplanes, twice in cables. And he made almost
four times as much as I made. We got into college and
so forth. And boy, do you think my in-laws didn't
learn it. Let you know about it. But actually, it
took me probably 20 years before I could catch up
with him, you know, afterwards. Yeah. It was quite
a... That's something, yeah, and that is another
story. What a deal. But anyhow, as soon as the war
was over, I got a job out in the Apache powder
company. Supposed to be in the Apache region,
Arizona, Pennsylvania or something. Where is
Benson? It's about 50 miles east of Tucson. Okay.
And at that time there were 960 people in the
population, and about half of
them were Hispanic. Very few yards from town, in a
typical desert. Yeah. Is that on the highway out
there? It's on the highway now. We go through this,
I mean through Arizona a lot, through Tucson and
Phoenix. It's on that highway. What kind of
powder? It's about 20 miles north of Tombstone.
Military contracts? Powder? No, this company
actually is the largest commercial explosives
company in the world. It was owned by Phelps Dodge,
Kennecott, Anaconda, all these big companies
that mine out in the west. Oh, okay. And that was, I
went out there as an engineer, but I
became a technical supervisor in a couple years,
so I was in charge of, you know, let's see, product
control, customer service, research and
development, engineering and development,
safety.
That kind of thing. Everything
except the actual manufacturing. Did you have any
loading or something? We had three loads there.
All
of them, I think, do. One guy, we don't understand
why. We feel it. Initially, we all feel it. Yeah, we
didn't know, but it was apparently, it was a
practice. We had a lot of problems in one thing or
another. And the last
one caught
him about halfway away from the building, about
two blocks, and picked him up and was tearing his
skin to like a rag. And he had a lot of matches and
stuff like that. I mean, this was actually the day
of it. So, I think he probably would settle on three
of them, if you don't know that. I know one of them
was your friend, the psychiatrist. It's like you
had the evaluation for 104, didn't you? Yeah, I
guess so. I know that's what happened. The, uh, I
liked that job. That was a good job. He paid well. I
had a chance to do things like go down to New Mexico
and end up in mines up in the world, in old buildings
and get asked around how to use explosives and this
kind of thing. I met very interesting people
because all the people in these mines are weird.
They have a Ph.D. from Marquette University.
They're up there with us. That's why they're
there. They haven't been to a dentist for 20 years.
They have the packages coming down their beard and
that kind of stuff. They're weird people. but it's
interesting, nevertheless. I think the history
of the Forest Service in the South, that's what I do
on the side, in the Southwest region, in Arizona
and Mexico, and in the Montana area, there's a lot
of these minor types. Well, they're weird. And in
Alaska. I mean, a lot of them. What I never could
figure out is you see an ad for one of these mining
engineers, and it goes something like this. Do you
want a mining engineer who has a Ph.D., can speak
Spanish, Chinese, and English fluently, has 20
years experience, $200 a month for some stupid
figure like that, and they apparently found them.
That's what I could never figure out. You'd think a
guy like that would be worth a lot more money, but
that's a different world. Anyhow, my wife did not
like Arizona. There was, like I say, no grass in any
of the yards. Pretty much a man's country. If you
like to hunt or prospect and this kind of thing, I
agree that we wanted to be there. Back there, the
barbecuers up there wasn't very nice. She didn't
like the explosive business. I don't think we need
to go into why I decided to quit. But anyhow, I
decided to quit. I told her and she said, fine,
let's go back to where my mother lives. I said, no
way. We'll move halfway and we're going to find a
place that's got a reasonable climate, good
schools, and a job with some dignity, and they
don't give a damn if I ever become a plant manager
anymore. I've given up on it. I had to find out that
the more you became a plant manager, the more hours
you put in. But anyhow, I found this job at A&M. How?
How? How did that happen? How did I find the one?
They had advertised on the Kennedy Engineering
News for an engineer, and I answered it. I thought
maybe there was a connection somewhere. Well, I
just followed up on an ad. I came here as an
associate research engineer. Who was head of that
lab? Cecil Womble was head of it. It
was kind of an interesting job. It wasn't too
challenging.
At that time, the cottonseed industry was
probably at its peak. They had about somewhere
around 450-500 cottonseed mills in the state.
They had a strong organization called the Cotton
Mill Superintendent's Association. None of
these outfits, except for Anderson, Clayton, and
a couple others were big enough to do any research
or so forth. So they managed to get this program
going, which was a really good program. It was
basically funded by the... Well, it was funded by
the state, but the association had enough
political plot to get the state to fund it. The
Cotton Seed Research Council, established by the
state, was split into three. The Texas Bulls
branch of it, I think, to Texas Tech. The
homemakers, the laundering, the shirts, and that
kind of stuff, to Colorado Women's College, or not
Colorado, Texas Women's College somewhere. And
then the technical production came in. Do you
remember if the Textile Engineering Program was
still here, or anything like that? Do you remember
anything like that? I don't recall that. We had a
thing called the...
I think it had gone on. Institute of Oil...
Institute of Oil... Continental Oil Technology
or something like that. It was sort of a paper... We
had a textile engineering program for a while in
the 20s and 30s. I think it was Dan Wall. That part of
it was handled by Les. He handled the mill.
actually what really sort of happened there was
was his name perhaps george s perhaps he was the
state chemist back in the 40s and 30s you know we our
revelation in the state chemists
was
primary because they analyzed the protein
content and so forth. They had to understand the
standards and of course part of our problem was to
make sure they managed to do this right. It's kind
of an interesting thing because the protein is the
expensive part. You lose money if you sell 43% of
the time. You're breaking the law if you sell
anything under 41% of the time. So you've got an
urge to cut down with a club hanging over your neck
if you cut too far. So to try and keep just above that
level is a pretty trickier thing, which brings up
this kind of thought. These all-now
superintendents, by and large, were very
intelligent men who had a limited education. They
usually started out in the automobile operation
and they were smart enough and so forth to become
superintendents. But being intelligent and
having worked their way up like that, they were
pretty self-confident folks. Which meant that it
was pretty hard to tell them as an engineer. So, for
example, on this protein thing, the way they would
do it is send out a sample every day to their
commercial lab to be analyzed. They came back a
little high, they made an adjustment a little
early, they were making an adjustment. And I
remember working out the statistical quality
control on it and showing that the results of the
analysis had plus or minus a half percent. So if you
come back with two percent, two tenths of a percent
higher or something like that, that doesn't mean
you want to make any adjustments at all. And worked
it out to where they could send out a sample about
once a week and actually do a better job for the
rest. There you go. Well, I'll give you an example
of that. They have these big, huge fans that pull
air through cottonsea plows and they've got 100
horsepower motors on them. I mean, they're big. If
they had a pool of cottonsea, you could just blow
it. I'm from Niagara, so yeah, we have a big... Oh,
you remember here in the... Yeah, yeah. Now,
basically these fans were discharging through
about a 10 by 16 inch discharge through, bam, out
into the atmosphere. Which made a hell of a lot of
noise and so forth. But more than that, it created,
there's a thing called a power recover. If you
expand that gas through it like a megaphone, in
about a seven degree angle megaphone, the kinetic
energy in the gas which is pretty high because it's
coming out there at, you know, the value of a sailor
or something of a high volume, is recovered. And it
turns out you can recover about 10% of your energy
just by putting a diverging nozzle under this.
This is well-known. In fact, it's... March's
mechanical engineering handbook has a whole page
on how to design a power recovery for fans. So I
wrote an article suggesting that all these guys
should put these on. It would cost them maybe $100
to have one made in a sheet metal shop that would A.
cut down all that noise, B. they would recover 10%
of their power. I even went with suppliers to some
of these superintendents. They're watching the
page out of the handbook and sending it to me. And
using such things the same way. Look, if I put an
electric fan in front of this discharge, it would
turn that fan, right? Well, that fan could be
generating electricity, right? Well, that's
energy that you're losing. Guess how many people
are using power recovery units on their fans? Not a
whole lot of people. Not a lot of people. No,
they've been doing this for years. They've been
working on it. They still won't do it. No, they
still won't do it. But as they're getting back to
the research business, in a way, the time seems to
have sorted for itself. And the oil mill's out of
business, because what happened is they went from
screw extraction to solid extraction, which is
amenable to larger-scale production, more
efficiency. And our lab did a great deal of the work
on that, showing
how to do it. And that result is, I don't know how
many oil mill operations there are in the state
now, but I would bet it's probably less than 20.
They've gone to year-round extraction using
solvent extraction, which a small plant like you
used to have an oil mill down here and have a soda.
with us too, you know, we couldn't possibly
compete. So all these guys, the whole industry has
changed dramatically because of the results of
this. I did some work over in the history of the rice
industry. I got really into rice when I was in New
Zealand. And they were just starting to work with
the chemical dimming processes. I don't think
that ever has really become commercial. I don't
know whether it's ever really been adopted. I
don't really know much about it, except for the
rice oil. But it sounds like it applies pretty much
to what? Did you do what? Did you? Yeah. Did you do
it? Exactly. In fact, I went to Beaumont about a few
weeks ago and bought back six bags of rice hulls and
put them in my garden to make some really good
compost. And now I'm going to plow it up this spring
and get this hull and mulch it clean and start it out
the original way. We pick them on how much
absorbance they have. For example, we use crushed
peach pits. because
they're not
important.
Sometimes you don't want the carbonaceous to
absorb in that condition because it reduces its
sensitivity. So you have a whole progression in 20
or 30 ingredients that you use for different
purposes. Well, many of the potency labs It was
kind of
fun. It gave me a chance
to go out and visit a lot of
wild animals and small town rural Texas, which to
me, I guess I'm just a rural farmer at heart. When
Dr. Calhoun came here, he was an engineer. He
looked around at what A&M was doing, and he saw a lot
of guys like myself who were full-time research
engineers, and a bunch of cops who weren't doing
any research. He said, that's not the way it's
supposed to work. Every cop should be doing
research, and every researcher ought to be
teaching. So, this was actually on a Friday. One
Friday, I got a phone call from Dr. Lindsay, who was
in the engineering department, telling me that I
was going to start teaching, following Monday. I
explained to him that I hadn't been in a classroom
for a long time. He said, that's alright, you don't
know what the students do. And Monday I was, quote,
teaching. What were you teaching? I started out
teaching The
real
interesting thing there, I was making pretty good
money as an associate research engineer, but
since I only had a bachelor of science degree, they
didn't want to call me a professor.
Fred Benson, who was then head of the experiment
station, said, no, wait a minute. If we hire a prof
to give them jobs during the summer to work as
research engineers, we're going
to tease. We pay them according to their power as
profs. My God, if you hire a research engineer
that's a prof, you're going to pay him and give him
the title of a prof. I wonder, didn't Did Benson and
Calhoun get along real good? I can't remember. I
don't know. I have no idea. They must have gotten
along pretty well. They worked. Let me tell you,
just a sideline. Benson, to me, is one of the
greatest men I have ever met. A lot of people think
that? Absolutely. He had a knack for picking
not-so-good subordinates. He was...
Well, this is a story I just told you. It's an
example. He didn't think that was right, and by
God, we're going to do what's right. I don't know
how many profs there were on the campus, associate
profs, that had just a BS degree, but I suspect I was
maybe one of them. Alone, or maybe two or three of us
would be the most I would think. Well, there was no
great professional engineers to get the day off
the gate. Well, a long time. Anyhow, that did hold
me back. I started on a master's
degree when I came here, because when I came here,
my idea was to work through college and go to
school. And I started on the master's degree, and
while I'm working on the master's degree, they
made this rule which make some sense that they
wouldn't grant any advanced degrees to anyone who
had a uh well by the time i was uh got out of my
master's i had a uh i was a professor and they
wouldn't let me go for a phd yeah i could take a lot of
courses and i took i thought i'd taken more courses
than graduate school anybody in this campus
didn't look at that all the graduate courses They
did both of them in chemistry and statistics, and
blue transfer, all kinds of good stuff. Anyhow,
I couldn't get an advanced degree, and that held me
back quite a bit. There was a lot of expansion in
salaries during the 50s, and I kind of got pretty
well chatteled in on that, because I did not have a
degree. And along about 69, the legislature
passed this thing saying that the college would
grant sabbatical leave. Good thing. And it worked
out so you could have six months full pay or a year
for half pay. And I thought, well, that sounds
pretty good. I called up the Colorado State
University. That's right next to it. We loved them
when I was a kid. And I loved the mountains. That's a
good place to do school. But then I talked to the guy
up there. And he says, yeah. and
the fact is that even let me use my research that
I've done, and the fact of the research, because it
was right down the alley what they were doing. It
wasn't in ag engineering, but what I was doing was
working with the wall there through toxic files,
which is, in technical terms, fluid flow through
porous, non-homogeneous, anisotropic And
they were working with water and aquifers for
producing the irrigation water and that kind of
thing. Same identical equations, everything the
same. And so it was not something that was foreign
to what they were doing, except it was in the ag
engineering department at Colorado State. So I
took a sabbatical leave and applied for one and
immediately got shot down. The
rules had to do with appoint or somehow get a
committee of professors who would administer the
sabbatical leave program. The very first rule
they passed when they met, we will not grant
sabbatical leaves for anyone working for an
advanced degree. They wanted you to be, take one
and go out and write a book or do something like
that. Well, that screwed me right off the bat. And I
talked to, I guess, Dean Benson. I talked to Dean
Benson, and he says, well, my guy, he says, if I
remember that law, it says that each branch of the
college can have its own sabbatical league
committee. And by God, I'm going to appoint a
committee for the T's, because you work half time
for T's. And by God, they're going to grant you a
sabbatical leave. Very good. Well, I didn't think
I'd be like this. Well, it was the right thing to do.
You know? And it's very typical of Dean Benson. I
tell you, he's one of the greatest men I've ever
met.
They're certainly more than responsible for
these meetings. But anyhow, I did take a
sabbatical leave. I went up to Colorado where I...
This is probably a world record. I got a Ph.D. in one
year. That sounds like a record to me. I don't
believe anybody's ever been bad. No, I don't think
so either. But it is a Ph.D. in agricultural
engineering. I got up there and the first semester
went through and I
was selling my stock. When I got it, it dropped from
60 down to about 20. I figured, man, I don't want to
sell that stuff. And I walked into the Department
of Law office one day with my mail, grouching out
loud, you know, that I don't know what I'm going to
do. I just don't want to sell that stock. I'm short
on money and all the wrong mail. It shows the
importance of being nice to people. And I've
always been nice to the secretary there. She's
always been nice to the secretary. She's the chief
of the day. And she heard me. She went back in. She
says, well, you know something. The School of
Engineering, or Graduate School of Engineering
has a scholarship for the outstanding scholar in
the graduate school. She said, I seem to remember
you've made all A's. I said, yeah. Well, I'm going
to apply for that for you. I said, okay, go ahead. I
didn't think anything about it. About three weeks
later, I'm going to be on my last scholarship. I
didn't have to be wonderful. I didn't have to sell
my stock. I hope your stock went back up. No, it
didn't. I finally sold it. But anyhow, I think it
was... a good, pure indication of why a page had
good manners. Really. She didn't need to do that.
It was actually effort on her part. I didn't even
know about it. I wouldn't have thought of barring
for it anyhow. I thought I was too old to ever get a
scholarship, and we didn't. That was pretty neat.
I was an outstanding student in graduate school,
which I should have been. They made me take some
courses up there, sort of core courses for what
they did. One of them was being transferred. I
explained to them, hey, man, they've been
teaching deep transfer for 20 years. That's all
right. We've got to take it. This was it. I was
taught by an old Dutch guy, a young man, whose
greatest delight was the fact that nobody had ever
made 100 in any of his courses. That, to him, was a
bad lawnmower. Typical German type of attitude. I
didn't know. Come so long as they quiz, I made a
hundred of them. Like they devastated this poor
old guy. He really was upset. The next quiz, I think
the class average was 19, if I remember correctly.
I made a hundred. He was really devastated. I bet
the class was down over here. No, they all sat
around me then. That was the first time in my life I
had... Everybody sitting as close as they could
when they took an exam as they could get. But
anyhow,
came to the final exam. It was a doozer.
I got a 93 on it. So then after I looked at it, I took it
back up to him and I said, sir, this is absolutely
correct.
That really, that really tore him up. Ruined his
career. It was funny because I couldn't see why it
was of any importance to him in the first place. I
should be proud of that. It really got to him. But
anyhow, he was going. Hardly any excuse for not
getting straight A's, but there he is. Like I said,
he enjoyed it. But anyhow, I did get my degree up
there and came back here. When
did
you retire? 1986. I worked two years past 65. Maybe
you could get more pension. You could get more on
Social Security. They
weren't actuarial for me, but they were for her.
And the older I got, the less my actuarial benefits
were, because I was i was older that way it's very
tricky and it turned out that if you're working
past 67 you got two percent more each year for
working but you got less each year because you're
working there you were getting older and it
crossed the threshold with 67 so i quit i retired
technically but i would modify it certainly yeah i
think one semester but uh well i went on that too let
me tell you about that They were short on somebody
to teach 204. And I said, well, I'll teach 204 the
next semester. You know, when you're going to do
that, you take
a certain with you, but at the same time, you get a
salary. Yeah.
Certain that I found last semester
that for every dollar I made, Social Security took
away 50 cents. Well, I knew it. Yeah. So that meant I
made 50 cents out of it. Yeah. But I also had to pay
teacher's retirement, which was 8%, so that took
off making 42 cents out of the dollar. But I also had
to pay Social Security, which was another 6%,
which brought me down to 36%.
Then I had medical
and these others to pay. And I had to pay teachers
retirement, which was another 8%. And when I got
through, by the time I had gotten through, I made
something like 8 cents on the dollar. I think I
figured out I made $200 teaching the whole
semester. I figured that's a bunch of wood. Let me
ask
you about the department a little bit. Going back
to Stegman, did you become a member of the chemical
engineering department? You're stepping out of
research, out of the
county lab. Well, I was split between the two.
Half-time, half-and-half. Until after I got back
from getting my Ph.D., and then I was full-time
over here. Now, when you made that, doing both,
You're answering, your research boss was who? He
died and was replaced
with Carl Peter. When I came back,
When I came back, one of the things we got in charge
of, we had a big argument at some time as to what I was
going to do.